# Security Vulnerability Disclosure Policy

## Introduction

The Hydra open source project is committed to ensuring the security of
its software and the privacy of its users. We value the contributions
of the security community in helping us identify and address
vulnerabilities in our code. This _Security Vulnerability Disclosure
Policy_ outlines how security vulnerabilities should be reported and
how we will respond to and remediate such reports while maintaining a
high level of privacy for all parties involved.

## Security Vulnerability Handling Process

### Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a security vulnerability in Hydra, we encourage you to
responsibly disclose it to us. To report a vulnerability, please use
the [private reporting form on
GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/security/advisories/new)
to draft a new _Security advisory_.

Please include as much details as needed to clearly qualify the issue:
    - A description of the vulnerability and its potential impact.
    - Steps to reproduce the vulnerability.
    - The version of `hydra-node` package where the vulnerability exists.
    - Any relevant proof-of-concept or exploit code (if applicable).

### Processing Vulnerability

Upon receiving notification of a security advisory, the Hydra team is
committed to follow this resolution process:

1. **Acknowledgment**: We will acknowledge the receipt of your report
   within 3 business days by commenting on the issue reporting it.

2. **Validation**: Our team will promptly investigate and validate the
   reported vulnerability, using a [private fork]() of the source code.

3. **Resolution**: We will work to resolve the vulnerability in a
   timely manner. The timeline for resolution will depend on the
   complexity and severity of the vulnerability, but we will strive to
   address critical vulnerabilities as quickly as possible.

4. **Communication**: We will maintain open and transparent
   communication with the reporter throughout the process, providing
   updates on the status of the vulnerability and any steps taken to
   remediate it.

5. **Privacy**: We are committed to maintaining the privacy of all
   parties involved in the vulnerability disclosure process. The
   details of the vulnerability report, as well as any communications
   related to the report, will be treated with the utmost
   confidentiality. Information related to the vulnerability will only
   be shared with individuals directly involved in the resolution
   process.

6. **Credit**: We will publicly acknowledge the contributions of the
   reporter once the vulnerability is resolved, subject to the
   reporter's preferences for attribution.

## Responsible Disclosure

We kindly request that reporters adhere to responsible disclosure
practices, which include:

- **Do not disclose the vulnerability publicly**: Please refrain from
  posting details of the vulnerability on public forums or social
  media until it has been resolved.
- **Do not exploit the vulnerability**: Do not attempt to exploit the
  vulnerability to cause harm or gain unauthorized access to systems.
- **Work with us**: Allow us a reasonable amount of time to
  investigate and address the vulnerability before publicly disclosing
  any details.

## Legal Protections

The Hydra team is committed to providing legal protections to
reporters who act in good faith and follow responsible disclosure
practices. We will not pursue legal action against individuals who
report security vulnerabilities to us.

## Contact Information

To report a security vulnerability or for any inquiries related to
security, please contact us at
[security@hydra.family](mailto:security@hydra.family).

## Revision of Policy

This Security Vulnerability Disclosure Policy may be updated or
revised as necessary. Please check the latest version of this policy
on the [Hydra repository](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/blob/master/SECURITY.md).

## Conclusion

The Hydra project greatly appreciates the assistance of the security
community in helping us maintain the security of our software while
upholding the highest standards of privacy. Together, we can work to
identify and address vulnerabilities, ensuring a safer and more secure
experience for all users.
